packagemonkey 
=============

<b>A tool to make packaging easier</b>

Description
-----------

Creating installable packages for Linux distros has always been a bit of a black art.  There is a lot of documentation out there and it's often voluminous and not especially easy to interpret.  When doing packaging by hand there are also many ways to go wrong.

Packagemonkey is intended to make packaging simpler, and enable the creation of multiple different types of package.

Installation
------------

The easiest way to install is from a pre-compiled package, a number of which are available at:

    https://build.opensuse.org/project/show?project=home%3Amotters%3Apackagemonkey

But if you prefer not to get involved with binaries then this program is pretty easy to compile and install as follows.

Check out the latest source code:

    git clone https://github.com/fuzzgun/packagemonkey.git

Then to build and install:

    cd packagemonkey
    make
    sudo make install

If you wish to generate a Debian package you can also run the following script:

    ./debian.sh

or an RPM can be generated by running:

    ./rpm.sh

or an Arch package can be generated by running:

    ./arch.sh


Example
-------

    packagemonkey --cmd --dir "/home/username/develop/packagemonkey" -l "gpl3" -e "Name <name@mydomainname.com>" --brief "Tool to make packaging easier" --desc "Making packing easier than it previously was." --homepage "https://github.com/fuzzgun/packagemonkey.git" --section "utils" --version "0.10" --categories "Utility/ConsoleOnly" --compile "-lz" --dependsdeb "build-essential, lintian"


Options
-------

<b>-d, --dir [directory]</b><br>
Set the directory of the project to be packaged.


<b>-c, --cmd</b><br>
Used to indicate this is a command line project.  If this option is not used then an icon and desktop file suitable for a GUI application will be generated.

<b>-b, --binaries [files]</b><br>
Directory containing binaries or scripts to be packaged.  By default this is a subdirectory called "install".

<b>--compile [args]</b><br>
Additional arguments to add to the compilation.

<b>-l, --license [type]</b><br>
The license type (gpl2|gpl3|lgpl2|lgpl3|mit|bsd|apache|mozilla)

<b>-e, --email [address]</b><br>
Set full name and email address.

<b>--brief [description]</b><br>
A brief one line description of the project.

<b>--desc [description]</b><br>
A full description of the project.

<b>--homepage [url]</b><br>
URL of the project home page.

<b>--src [url]</b><br>
URL of the compressed source code.

<b>--section [sections]</b><br>
Debian sections.

<b>--categories [cat]</b><br>
desktop file categories.

<b>--dependsdeb [packages]</b><br>
Deb packages which the project depends upon.

<b>--builddeb [packages]</b><br>
Deb packages required to build the project.

<b>--dependsrpm [packages]</b><br>
RPM packages which the project depends upon.

<b>--dependsarch [packages]</b><br>
Arch packages which the project depends upon.

<b>--dependspuppy [packages]</b><br>
Puppy packages which the project depends upon.

<b>--buildrpm [packages>]</b><br>
RPM packages required to build the project.

<b>--buildarch [packages>]</b><br>
Arch packages required to build the project.

<b>--list-sections</b><br>
List the possible Debian sections.

<b>--list-desktop</b><br>
List the possible desktop file categories.

<b>--debian [version]</b><br>
Set the Debian version.

<b>-t, --tests</b><br>
Run unit tests.

<b>-v, --version [number]</b><br>
Show or set the project version number.  If only a single option exists then this will return the version number of packagemonkey, otherwise in a multi-option situation it can be used to set the version number of the prokect to be packaged.

<b>-r, --release [number]</b><br>
Set the project release number.

<b>-h, --help</b><br>
Show help.


Bugs
----

Report bugs at https://github.com/fuzzgun/packagemonkey/issues
